---
title: Solutions
description: Find experts near you to help you to build and enhance your project.
image: '/socials/support.jpg'
---

::page-hero
---
image:
  src: '/assets/support/solutions/hero'
  format: 'webp'
  height: '216'
  width: '400'
---
#title
Nuxt Support
#description
Discover the different support offers to answer your questions, get an audit, consulting or build your next idea.
::

::support-section
---
image: 'agency'
to: '/support/agencies'
---
#title
Official Agency partners
#description
The agency Partners are a network of trusted agencies from all over the world that can cover every expertise that you may be looking for.
They have been working with Nuxt for years and have dozens of amazing references to showcase their capabilities. <br /><br />
Consult our agency partner catalog and find an agency near you with the right set of skills! <br /><br />
If you have any question, we will gladly help you refine your needs and help you select the relevant partner for you.
#link
[Look for an agency]{ .text-lg .font-semibold }
::

::support-section
---
image: 'experts'
---
#title
Nuxt Experts
#description
The Nuxt Expert Network is a group of experienced freelance developers with an expertise in web development with Vue & Nuxt, carefully selected by NuxtLabs.
Their capabilities have been officially certified by the NuxtLabs team during a 3 steps certification process.
<br /> <br />
They act as an external workforce for Nuxtlabs and are qualified to take on any consulting mission on behalf of Nuxtlabs, such as:
#extra
::list{type="success" icon="heroicons-solid:check-circle"}
- Identify and solve your pain points
- Set your project on the right track with best practices
- Improve your website performance
- Provide custom solutions or integrations
::

[Contact us at [experts@nuxt.com]{ .text-green-400 } for a quote.]{ .text-lg .font-semibold }
::

::support-section
---
image: 'community'
---
#title
Community Support
#description
Our active community is comprised of more than 2000 contributors. Asking your questions on our GitHub discussion board is a free and efficient way to ensure that you find solutions to your problems.
#list
::support-community-list
---
icon: github-discussion
---
#title
GitHub discussion
#description
We first recommend looking for your question on the [discussion board](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/discussions){ .font-semibold .text-green-400 }. Feel free to create a post if you can't find the answer.
::
::support-community-list
---
icon: discord-server
---
#title
Discord server
#description
Our [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/nuxt-473401852243869706){ .font-semibold .text-green-400 } is also a good place to have real time exchanges with members of the community.
::
::support-community-list
---
icon: other-platform
---
#title
Other Platforms
#description
If none of the solutions above work for you, you can also try the [Nuxt subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Nuxt/){ .font-semibold .text-green-400 } or [StackOverflow.](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/nuxt.js?tab=Newest){ .font-semibold .text-green-400 }
::
::
