---
title: "<NuxtLink>"
description: "Nuxt provides <NuxtLink> component to handle any kind of links within your application."
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-link.ts
    size: xs
---

::note
`<NuxtLink>` is a drop-in replacement for both Vue Router's `<RouterLink>` component and HTML's `<a>` tag. It intelligently determines whether the link is _internal_ or _external_ and renders it accordingly with available optimizations (prefetching, default attributes, etc.)
::

## Internal Routing

In this example, we use `<NuxtLink>` component to link to another page of the application.

::code-group
```vue [app/pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink to="/about">About page</NuxtLink>
</template>
```

```html [(Renders as) index.html]
<!-- (Vue Router & Smart Prefetching) -->
<a href="/about">About page</a>
```
::

### Passing Params to Dynamic Routes

In this example, we pass the `id` param to link to the route `~/pages/posts/[id].vue`.

::code-group
```vue [app/pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink :to="{ name: 'posts-id', params: { id: 123 } }">
    Post 123
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

```html [(Renders as) index.html]
<a href="/posts/123">Post 123</a>
```
::

::tip
Check out the Pages panel in Nuxt DevTools to see the route name and the params it might take.
::

::tip
When you pass an object into the `to` prop, `<NuxtLink>` will inherit Vue Router’s handling of query parameters. Keys and values will be automatically encoded, so you don’t need to call `encodeURI` or `encodeURIComponent` manually.
::

### Handling Static File and Cross-App Links

By default, `<NuxtLink>` uses Vue Router's client side navigation for relative route. When linking to static files in the `/public` directory or to another application hosted on the same domain, it might result in unexpected 404 errors because they are not part of the client routes. In such cases, you can use the `external` prop with `<NuxtLink>` to bypass Vue Router's internal routing mechanism.

The `external` prop explicitly indicates that the link is external. `<NuxtLink>` will render the link as a standard HTML `<a>` tag. This ensures the link behaves correctly, bypassing Vue Router’s logic and directly pointing to the resource.

#### Linking to Static Files

For static files in the `/public` directory, such as PDFs or images, use the `external` prop to ensure the link resolves correctly.

```vue [app/pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink
    to="/example-report.pdf"
    external
  >
    Download Report
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

#### Linking to a Cross-App URL

When pointing to a different application on the same domain, using the `external` prop ensures the correct behavior.

```vue [app/pages/index.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink
    to="/another-app"
    external
  >
    Go to Another App
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

Using the `external` prop or relying on automatic handling ensures proper navigation, avoids unexpected routing issues, and improves compatibility with static resources or cross-application scenarios.

## External Routing

In this example, we use `<NuxtLink>` component to link to a website.

```vue [app/app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink to="https://nuxtjs.org">
    Nuxt website
  </NuxtLink>
  <!-- <a href="https://nuxtjs.org" rel="noopener noreferrer">...</a> -->
</template>
```

## `rel` and `noRel` Attributes

A `rel` attribute of `noopener noreferrer` is applied by default to links with a `target` attribute or to absolute links (e.g., links starting with `http://`, `https://`, or `//`).
- `noopener` solves a [security bug](https://mathiasbynens.github.io/rel-noopener/) in older browsers.
- `noreferrer` improves privacy for your users by not sending the `Referer` header to the linked site.

These defaults have no negative impact on SEO and are considered [best practice](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/best-practices/external-anchors-use-rel-noopener).

When you need to overwrite this behavior you can use the `rel` or `noRel` props.

```vue [app/app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink to="https://x.com/nuxt_js">
    Nuxt Twitter
  </NuxtLink>
  <!-- <a href="https://x.com/nuxt_js" rel="noopener noreferrer">...</a> -->

  <NuxtLink
    to="https://discord.nuxtjs.org"
    rel="noopener"
  >
    Nuxt Discord
  </NuxtLink>
  <!-- <a href="https://discord.nuxtjs.org" rel="noopener">...</a> -->

  <NuxtLink
    to="/about"
    target="_blank"
  >About page</NuxtLink>
  <!-- <a href="/about" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">...</a> -->
</template>
```

A `noRel` prop can be used to prevent the default `rel` attribute from being added to the absolute links.

```vue [app/app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLink
    to="https://github.com/nuxt"
    no-rel
  >
    Nuxt GitHub
  </NuxtLink>
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/nuxt">...</a> -->
</template>
```

::note
`noRel` and `rel` cannot be used together. `rel` will be ignored.
::

## Prefetch Links

Nuxt automatically includes smart prefetching. That means it detects when a link is visible (by default), either in the viewport or when scrolling and prefetches the JavaScript for those pages so that they are ready when the user clicks the link. Nuxt only loads the resources when the browser isn't busy and skips prefetching if your connection is offline or if you only have 2g connection.

```vue [app/pages/index.vue]
<NuxtLink to="/about" no-prefetch>
About page not pre-fetched
</NuxtLink>

<NuxtLink to="/about" :prefetch="false">
About page not pre-fetched
</NuxtLink>
```

### Custom Prefetch Triggers

We now support custom prefetch triggers for `<NuxtLink>` after `v3.13.0`. You can use the `prefetchOn` prop to control when to prefetch links.

```vue
<template>
  <NuxtLink prefetch-on="visibility">
    This will prefetch when it becomes visible (default)
  </NuxtLink>

  <NuxtLink prefetch-on="interaction">
    This will prefetch when hovered or when it gains focus
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

- `visibility`: Prefetches when the link becomes visible in the viewport. Monitors the element's intersection with the viewport using the [Intersection Observer API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API). Prefetching is triggered when the element is scrolled into view.
- `interaction`: Prefetches when the link is hovered or focused. This approach listens for `pointerenter` and `focus` events, proactively prefetching resources when the user indicates intent to interact.

You can also use an object to configure `prefetchOn`:

```vue
<template>
  <NuxtLink :prefetch-on="{ interaction: true }">
    This will prefetch when hovered or when it gains focus
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

That you probably don't want both enabled!

```vue
<template>
  <NuxtLink :prefetch-on="{ visibility: true, interaction: true }">
    This will prefetch when hovered/focus - or when it becomes visible
  </NuxtLink>
</template>
```

This configuration will observe when the element enters the viewport and also listen for `pointerenter` and `focus` events. This may result in unnecessary resource usage or redundant prefetching, as both triggers can prefetch the same resource under different conditions.

### Enable Cross-origin Prefetch

To enable cross-origin prefetching, you can set the `crossOriginPrefetch` option in your `nuxt.config`. This will enable cross-origin prefetching using the [Speculation Rules API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Speculation_Rules_API).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  experimental: {
    crossOriginPrefetch: true,
  },
})
```

### Disable prefetch globally

It's also possible to enable/disable prefetching all links globally for your app.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  experimental: {
    defaults: {
      nuxtLink: {
        prefetch: false,
      },
    },
  },
})
```

## Props

### RouterLink

When not using `external`, `<NuxtLink>` supports all Vue Router's [`RouterLink` props](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterLinkProps.html)

- `to`: Any URL or a [route location object](https://router.vuejs.org/api/type-aliases/RouteLocation.html) from Vue Router
- `custom`: Whether `<NuxtLink>` should wrap its content in an `<a>` element. It allows taking full control of how a link is rendered and how navigation works when it is clicked. Works the same as [Vue Router's `custom` prop](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterLinkProps.html#Properties-custom)
- `exactActiveClass`: A class to apply on exact active links. Works the same as [Vue Router's `exactActiveClass` prop](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterLinkProps.html#Properties-exactActiveClass) on internal links. Defaults to Vue Router's default (`"router-link-exact-active"`)
- `activeClass`: A class to apply on active links. Works the same as [Vue Router's `activeClass` prop](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterLinkProps.html#Properties-activeClass) on internal links. Defaults to Vue Router's default (`"router-link-active"`)
- `replace`: Works the same as [Vue Router's `replace` prop](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouteLocationOptions.html#Properties-replace) on internal links
- `ariaCurrentValue`: An `aria-current` attribute value to apply on exact active links. Works the same as [Vue Router's `ariaCurrentValue` prop](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterLinkProps.html#Properties-ariaCurrentValue) on internal links

### NuxtLink

- `href`: An alias for `to`. If used with `to`, `href` will be ignored
- `noRel`: If set to `true`, no `rel` attribute will be added to the external link
- `external`: Forces the link to be rendered as an `<a>` tag instead of a Vue Router `RouterLink`.
- `prefetch`: When enabled will prefetch middleware, layouts and payloads (when using [payloadExtraction](/docs/4.x/api/nuxt-config#crossoriginprefetch)) of links in the viewport. Used by the experimental [crossOriginPrefetch](/docs/4.x/api/nuxt-config#crossoriginprefetch) config.
- `prefetchOn`: Allows custom control of when to prefetch links. Possible options are `interaction` and `visibility` (default). You can also pass an object for full control, for example: `{ interaction: true, visibility: true }`. This prop is only used when `prefetch` is enabled (default) and `noPrefetch` is not set.
- `noPrefetch`: Disables prefetching.
- `prefetchedClass`: A class to apply to links that have been prefetched.

### Anchor

- `target`: A `target` attribute value to apply on the link
- `rel`: A `rel` attribute value to apply on the link. Defaults to `"noopener noreferrer"` for external links.

::tip
Defaults can be overwritten, see [overwriting defaults](/docs/4.x/api/components/nuxt-link#overwriting-defaults) if you want to change them.
::

## Overwriting Defaults

### In Nuxt Config

You can overwrite some `<NuxtLink>` defaults in your [`nuxt.config`](/docs/4.x/api/nuxt-config#defaults)

::important
These options will likely be moved elsewhere in the future, such as into `app.config` or into the `app/` directory.
::

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  experimental: {
    defaults: {
      nuxtLink: {
        // default values
        componentName: 'NuxtLink',
        externalRelAttribute: 'noopener noreferrer',
        activeClass: 'router-link-active',
        exactActiveClass: 'router-link-exact-active',
        prefetchedClass: undefined, // can be any valid string class name
        trailingSlash: undefined, // can be 'append' or 'remove'
        prefetch: true,
        prefetchOn: { visibility: true },
      },
    },
  },
})
```

### Custom Link Component

You can overwrite `<NuxtLink>` defaults by creating your own link component using `defineNuxtLink`.

```ts [app/components/MyNuxtLink.ts]
export default defineNuxtLink({
  componentName: 'MyNuxtLink',
  /* see signature below for more */
})
```

You can then use `<MyNuxtLink />` component as usual with your new defaults.

### `defineNuxtLink` Signature

```ts
interface NuxtLinkOptions {
  componentName?: string
  externalRelAttribute?: string
  activeClass?: string
  exactActiveClass?: string
  trailingSlash?: 'append' | 'remove'
  prefetch?: boolean
  prefetchedClass?: string
  prefetchOn?: Partial<{
    visibility: boolean
    interaction: boolean
  }>
}
function defineNuxtLink (options: NuxtLinkOptions): Component {}
```

- `componentName`: A name for the component. Default is `NuxtLink`.
- `externalRelAttribute`: A default `rel` attribute value applied on external links. Defaults to `"noopener noreferrer"`. Set it to `""` to disable
- `activeClass`: A default class to apply on active links. Works the same as [Vue Router's `linkActiveClass` option](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterOptions.html#Properties-linkActiveClass). Defaults to Vue Router's default (`"router-link-active"`)
- `exactActiveClass`: A default class to apply on exact active links. Works the same as [Vue Router's `linkExactActiveClass` option](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouterOptions.html#Properties-linkExactActiveClass). Defaults to Vue Router's default (`"router-link-exact-active"`)
- `trailingSlash`: An option to either add or remove trailing slashes in the `href`. If unset or not matching the valid values `append` or `remove`, it will be ignored.
- `prefetch`: Whether or not to prefetch links by default.
- `prefetchOn`: Granular control of which prefetch strategies to apply by default.
- `prefetchedClass`: A default class to apply to links that have been prefetched.

:link-example{to="/docs/4.x/examples/routing/pages"}
