---
title: '<NuxtLoadingIndicator>'
description: 'Display a progress bar between page navigations.'
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-loading-indicator.ts
    size: xs
---

## Usage

Add `<NuxtLoadingIndicator/>` in your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app) or [`layouts/`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts).

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtLoadingIndicator />
  <NuxtLayout>
    <NuxtPage />
  </NuxtLayout>
</template>
```

:link-example{to="/docs/examples/routing/pages"}

## Slots

You can pass custom HTML or components through the loading indicator's default slot.

## Props

- `color`: The color of the loading bar. It can be set to `false` to turn off explicit color styling.
- `height`: Height of the loading bar, in pixels (default `3`).
- `duration`: Duration of the loading bar, in milliseconds (default `2000`).
- `throttle`: Throttle the appearing and hiding, in milliseconds (default `200`).
- `progressionRate`: The steepness of the non-linear function used in calculating progress. A lower value results in a steeper curve, meaning faster initial progress that slows down more sharply towards the end. Valid range: `0` to `100` (inclusive), with values outside this range clamped accordingly. (default `50`);

::callout
This component is optional. :br
To achieve full customization, you can implement your own one based on [its source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-loading-indicator.ts).
::

::callout
You can hook into the underlying indicator instance using [the `useLoadingIndicator` composable](/docs/api/composables/use-loading-indicator), which will allow you to trigger start/finish events yourself.
::

::callout
The loading indicator's speed gradually decreases after reaching a specific point controlled by `progressionRate`. This adjustment provides a more accurate reflection of longer page loading times and prevents the indicator from prematurely showing 100% completion.
::
