---
navigation.icon: uil:check-circle
---

# Testing

How to test your Nuxt application.

::alert{icon=👉}
Test utils are still in development, and the API and behavior may change. It is in the preview stage and not yet ready for testing production apps.
If you are a module author, you can find more specific information in the [Module Author's guide](/docs/guide/going-further/modules#testing)
::

In Nuxt 3, we have a rewritten version of `@nuxt/test-utils`. We support [Vitest](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest) and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) as test runners.

## Installation

```bash
yarn add --dev @nuxt/test-utils vitest
```

## Setup

In each `describe` block where you are taking advantage of the `@nuxt/test-utils` helper methods, you must set up the test context before beginning.

```ts
import { describe, test } from 'vitest'
import { setup, $fetch } from '@nuxt/test-utils'

describe('My test', async () => {
  await setup({
    // test context options
  })

  test('my test', () => {
    // ...
  })
})
```

Behind the scenes, `setup` performs several tasks in `beforeAll`, `beforeEach`, `afterEach`, and `afterAll` to set up the Nuxt test environment right.

## Options

### Nuxt Configuration

#### `rootDir`

Defines the directory path of the Nuxt app to test.

* Type: `string`
* Default: `'.'`

#### `configFile`

Name of the configuration file.

* Type: `string`
* Default: `'nuxt.config'`

<!--
#### config

Object with configuration overrides.

* Type: `NuxtConfig`
* Default: `{}` -->

### Setup Timings

#### `setupTimeout`

The time (in milliseconds) for `setupTest` to complete its work ( could include building or generating files for a Nuxt application, depending on the options passed).

* Type: `number`
* Default: `60000`

### Features to Enable

#### `server`

Determines whether or not to launch a server to respond to requests in the test suite.

* Type: `boolean`
* Default: `true`

#### `port`

If provided, set the launched test server port to the value.

* Type: `number | undefined`
* Default: `undefined`

#### `build`

Determines whether or not to run a separate build step.

* Type: `boolean`
* Default: `true` (`false` if `browser` or `server` is disabled)

#### `browser`

Under the hood, Nuxt's test utils use [`playwright`](https://playwright.dev/) to carry out browser testing. If this option is set, a browser will be launched and controllable in the subsequent test suite. (More info can be found [here](/docs/getting-started/testing).)

* Type: `boolean`
* Default: `false`

#### `browserOptions`

* Type: `object` with the following properties
  * **type**: The type of browser to launch - either `chromium`, `firefox` or `webkit`
  * **launch**: `object` of options that will be passed to the playwright when launching the browser. See [the API reference](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-browsertype#browser-type-launch).

#### `runner`

Specify the runner for the test suite. Currently, [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) is recommended.

* Type: `'vitest' | 'jest'`
* Default: `'vitest'`

## APIs

### APIs for Rendering Testing

#### `$fetch(url)`

Get the HTML of a server-rendered page.

```ts
import { $fetch } from '@nuxt/test-utils'

const html = await $fetch('/')
```

#### `fetch(url)`

Get the response of a server-rendered page.

```ts
import { fetch } from '@nuxt/test-utils'

const res = await fetch('/')
const { body, headers } = res
```

#### `url(path)`

Get the full URL for a given page (including the port the test server is running on.)

```ts
import { url } from '@nuxt/test-utils'

const pageUrl = url('/page')
// 'http://localhost:6840/page'
```

## Testing in a Browser

::alert{icon=🚧}
We are working on it, so stay tuned!
::
