---
navigation.icon: uil:sign-alt
description: Nuxt file-system routing creates a route for every file in the pages/ directory.
---
# Routing

One core feature of Nuxt is the file system router. Every Vue file inside the `pages/` directory creates a corresponding URL (or route) that displays the file contents. Using dynamic imports for each page, Nuxt leverages code-splitting to ship the minimum amount of JavaScript for the requested route.

## Pages

Nuxt routing is based on [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org) and generates the routes from every component created in the [`pages/`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages) directory based on their filename.

This file system routing uses naming conventions to create dynamic and nested routes:

::code-group

```text [pages/ directory]
pages/
--| about.vue
--| posts/
----| [id].vue
```

```js [Generated Router file]
{
  "routes": [
    {
      "path": "/about",
      "component": "pages/about.vue"
    },
    {
      "path": "/posts/:id",
      "component": "pages/posts/[id].vue"
    }
  ]
}
```

::

:ReadMore{link="/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages"}

## Navigation

The `<NuxtLink>` component links between pages. It renders an `<a>` tag with the `href` attribute set to the route of the page. Once the application is hydrated, page transitions get performed in JavaScript by updating the browser URL. This prevents full-page refreshes and allows for animated transitions.

When a `<NuxtLink>` enters the viewport on the client side, Nuxt will automatically prefetch components and payload (generated pages) of the linked pages ahead of time, resulting in faster navigation.

```vue [pages/app.vue]
<template>
  <header>
    <nav>
      <ul>
        <li><NuxtLink to="/about">About</NuxtLink></li>
        <li><NuxtLink to="/posts/1">Post 1</NuxtLink></li>
        <li><NuxtLink to="/posts/2">Post 2</NuxtLink></li>
      </ul>
    </nav>
  </header>
</template>
```

:ReadMore{link="/docs/api/components/nuxt-link"}

## Route Parameters

The `useRoute()` composable allows accessing the current route's details. It is usable in a `<script setup>` block and a `setup()` method of a Vue component.

```vue [pages/posts/[id].vue]
<script setup>
const route = useRoute()

// When accessing /posts/1, route.params.id will be 1
console.log(route.params.id)
</script>
```

:ReadMore{link="/docs/api/composables/use-route"}

## Route Middleware

Nuxt provides a customizable route middleware framework, usable throughout your application and ideal for extracting code you want to run before navigating to a particular route.

::alert{type=info}
A route middleware runs within the Vue part of your Nuxt app. Despite the similar name, it is entirely different from a server middleware, which runs in the Nitro server part of your app.
::

There are three kinds of route middleware:

1. Anonymous (or inline) route middleware, defined directly in the pages where used.
2. Named route middleware, placed in the `middleware/` directory and automatically loaded via an asynchronous import when used on a page. (**Note**: The route middleware name normalizes to kebab-case, so `someMiddleware` becomes `some-middleware`.)
3. Global route middleware, placed in the `middleware/` directory (with a `.global` suffix) and automatically run on every route change.

Example of an `auth` middleware protecting the `/dashboard` page:

::code-group

```ts [middleware/auth.ts]
export default defineNuxtRouteMiddleware((to, from) => {
  // isAuthenticated() is an example method verifying if a user is authenticated
  if (isAuthenticated() === false) {
    return navigateTo('/login')
  }
})
```

```html [pages/dashboard.vue]
<script setup>
definePageMeta({
  middleware: 'auth'
})
</script>

<template>
  <h1>Welcome to your dashboard</h1>
</template>
```

::

:ReadMore{link="/docs/guide/directory-structure/middleware"}

## Route Validation

Nuxt offers route validation via the `validate` property in [`definePageMeta`](/docs/api/utils/define-page-meta) on each page you wish to validate.

The `validate` property accepts the `route` as an argument. You can return a boolean value to determine whether or not this is a valid route to render with this page. If you return `false` with no other match found, this will cause a 404 error. You can also directly return an object with `statusCode`/`statusMessage` to respond immediately with an error. Other matches will get ignored in this case.

If you have a more complex use case, use anonymous route middleware instead.

```vue [pages/posts/[id].vue]
<script setup>
definePageMeta({
  validate: (route) => {
    // Check if the id consists of digits
    return /^\d+$/.test(route.params.id)
  }
})
</script>
```
