# How Nuxt Works?

Nuxt is a minimal but highly customizable framework to build web applications. This guide helps you better understand Nuxt internals to develop new solutions and module integrations on top of Nuxt.

## The Nuxt Interface

When you start Nuxt in development mode with `nuxi dev` or building a production application with `nuxi build`,
a common context will be created, referred to as `nuxt` internally. It holds normalized options merged with `nuxt.config` file,
some internal state, and a powerful [hooking system](/api/advanced/hooks) powered by [unjs/hookable](https://github.com/unjs/hookable)
allowing different components to communicate with each other. You can think of it as **Builder Core**.

This context is globally available to be used with [nuxt/kit](/api/advanced/kit) composables.
Therefore only one instance of Nuxt is allowed to run per process.

To extend the Nuxt interface and hook into different stages of the build process, we can use [Nuxt Modules](/guide/going-further/modules).

For more details, check out [the source code](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/core/nuxt.ts).

## The NuxtApp Interface

When rendering a page in the browser or on the server, a shared context will be created, referred to as `nuxtApp`.
This context keeps vue instance, runtime hooks, and internal states like ssrContext and payload for hydration.
You can think of it as **Runtime Core**.

This context can be accessed using `useNuxtApp()` composable within Nuxt plugins and `<script setup>` and vue composables.
Global usage is possible for the browser but not on the server, to avoid sharing context between users.

To extend the `nuxtApp` interface and hook into different stages or access contexts, we can use [Nuxt Plugins](/guide/directory-structure/plugins).

Check [Nuxt App](/api/composables/use-nuxt-app) for more information about this interface.

`nuxtApp` has the following properties:

Note: this is an internal interface, and some properties might change until stable release.

```js
const nuxtApp = {
  vueApp, // the global Vue application: https://vuejs.org/api/application.html#application-api

  // These let you call and add runtime NuxtApp hooks
  // https://github.com/nuxt/framework/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts#L18
  hooks,
  hook,
  callHook,

  // Only accessible on server-side
  ssrContext: {
    url,
    req,
    res,
    runtimeConfig,
    noSSR,
  },

  // This will be stringified and passed from server to client
  payload: {
    serverRendered: true,
    data: {},
    state: {}
  }

  provide: (name: string, value: any) => void
}
```

For more details, check out [the source code](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts).

## Runtime Context vs. Build Context

Nuxt builds and bundles project using Node.js but also has a runtime side.

While both areas can be extended, that runtime context is isolated from build-time. Therefore, they are not supposed to share state, code, or context other than runtime configuration!

`nuxt.config` and [Nuxt Modules](/guide/going-further/modules) can be used to extend the build context, and [Nuxt Plugins](/guide/directory-structure/plugins) can be used to extend runtime.

When building an application for production, `nuxi build` will generate a standalone build
 in the `.output` directory, independent of `nuxt.config` and [Nuxt modules](/guide/going-further/modules).
