---
title: 'Lifecycle Hooks'
description: Nuxt provides a powerful hooking system to expand almost every aspect using hooks.
---

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/going-further/hooks"}

## App Hooks (runtime)

Check the [app source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts#L37) for all available hooks.

Hook                   | Arguments           | Environment     | Description
-----------------------|---------------------|-----------------|-------------
`app:created`          | `vueApp`            | Server & Client | Called when initial `vueApp` instance is created.
`app:error`            | `err`               | Server & Client | Called when a fatal error occurs.
`app:error:cleared`    | `{ redirect? }`     | Server & Client | Called when a fatal error occurs.
`vue:setup`            | -                   | Server & Client | Called when the setup of Nuxt root is initialized. This callback must be synchronous.
`vue:error`            | `err, target, info` | Server & Client | Called when a vue error propagates to the root component. [Learn More](https://vuejs.org/api/composition-api-lifecycle.html#onerrorcaptured).
`app:rendered`         | `renderContext`     | Server          | Called when SSR rendering is done.
`app:redirected`       | -                   | Server          | Called before SSR redirection.
`app:beforeMount`      | `vueApp`            | Client          | Called before mounting the app, called only on client side.
`app:mounted`          | `vueApp`            | Client          | Called when Vue app is initialized and mounted in browser.
`app:suspense:resolve` | `appComponent`      | Client          | On [Suspense](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/suspense.html#suspense) resolved event.
`app:manifest:update`  | `{ id, timestamp }` | Client          | Called when there is a newer version of your app detected.
`app:data:refresh`     | `keys?`             | Client          | Called when `refreshNuxtData` is called.
`link:prefetch`        | `to`                | Client          | Called when a `<NuxtLink>` is observed to be prefetched.
`page:start`           | `pageComponent?`    | Client          | Called on [Suspense](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/suspense.html#suspense) inside of `NuxtPage` pending event.
`page:finish`          | `pageComponent?`    | Client          | Called on [Suspense](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/suspense.html#suspense) inside of `NuxtPage` resolved event.
`page:loading:start`   | -                   | Client          | Called when the `setup()` of the new page is running.
`page:loading:end`     | -                   | Client          | Called after `page:finish`
`page:transition:finish`| `pageComponent?`    | Client          | After page transition [onAfterLeave](https://vuejs.org/guide/built-ins/transition.html#javascript-hooks) event.
`dev:ssr-logs`         | `logs`              | Client          | Called with an array of server-side logs that have been passed to the client (if `features.devLogs` is enabled).
`page:view-transition:start` | `transition`        | Client          | Called after `document.startViewTransition` is called when [experimental viewTransition support is enabled](/docs/getting-started/transitions#view-transitions-api-experimental).

## Nuxt Hooks (build time)

Check the [schema source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/schema/src/types/hooks.ts#L83) for all available hooks.

Hook                     | Arguments                  | Description
-------------------------|----------------------------|-------------
`kit:compatibility`      | `compatibility, issues`    | Allows extending compatibility checks.
`ready`                  | `nuxt`                     | Called after Nuxt initialization, when the Nuxt instance is ready to work.
`close`                  | `nuxt`                     | Called when Nuxt instance is gracefully closing.
`restart`                | `{ hard?: boolean }`       | To be called to restart the current Nuxt instance.
`modules:before`         | -                          | Called during Nuxt initialization, before installing user modules.
`modules:done`           | -                          | Called during Nuxt initialization, after installing user modules.
`app:resolve`            | `app`                      | Called after resolving the `app` instance.
`app:templates`          | `app`                      | Called during `NuxtApp` generation, to allow customizing, modifying or adding new files to the build directory (either virtually or to written to `.nuxt`).
`app:templatesGenerated` | `app`                      | Called after templates are compiled into the [virtual file system](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt#virtual-file-system) (vfs).
`build:before`           | -                          | Called before Nuxt bundle builder.
`build:done`             | -                          | Called after Nuxt bundle builder is complete.
`build:manifest`         | `manifest`                 | Called during the manifest build by Vite and webpack. This allows customizing the manifest that Nitro will use to render `<script>` and `<link>` tags in the final HTML.
`builder:generateApp`    | `options`                  | Called before generating the app.
`builder:watch`          | `event, path`              | Called at build time in development when the watcher spots a change to a file or directory in the project.
`pages:extend`           | `pages`                    | Called after page routes are scanned from the file system.
`pages:resolved`         | `pages`                    | Called after page routes have been augmented with scanned metadata.
`pages:routerOptions`   | `{ files: Array<{ path: string, optional?: boolean }> }` | Called when resolving `router.options` files. Later items in the array override earlier ones.
`server:devHandler`      | `handler`                  | Called when the dev middleware is being registered on the Nitro dev server.
`imports:sources`        | `presets`                  | Called at setup allowing modules to extend sources.
`imports:extend`         | `imports`                  | Called at setup allowing modules to extend imports.
`imports:context`        | `context`                  | Called when the [unimport](https://github.com/unjs/unimport) context is created.
`imports:dirs`           | `dirs`                     | Allows extending import directories.
`components:dirs`        | `dirs`                     | Called within `app:resolve` allowing to extend the directories that are scanned for auto-importable components.
`components:extend`      | `components`               | Allows extending new components.
`nitro:config`           | `nitroConfig`              | Called before initializing Nitro, allowing customization of Nitro's configuration.
`nitro:init`             | `nitro`                    | Called after Nitro is initialized, which allows registering Nitro hooks and interacting directly with Nitro.
`nitro:build:before`     | `nitro`                    | Called before building the Nitro instance.
`nitro:build:public-assets`     | `nitro`                    | Called after copying public assets. Allows modifying public assets before Nitro server is built.
`prerender:routes`       | `ctx`                      | Allows extending the routes to be pre-rendered.
`build:error`            | `error`                    | Called when an error occurs at build time.
`prepare:types`          | `options`                  | Called before Nuxi writes `.nuxt/tsconfig.json` and `.nuxt/nuxt.d.ts`, allowing addition of custom references and declarations in `nuxt.d.ts`, or directly modifying the options in `tsconfig.json`
`listen`                 | `listenerServer, listener` | Called when the dev server is loading.
`schema:extend`          | `schemas`                  | Allows extending default schemas.
`schema:resolved`        | `schema`                   | Allows extending resolved schema.
`schema:beforeWrite`     | `schema`                   | Called before writing the given schema.
`schema:written`         | -                          | Called after the schema is written.
`vite:extend`            | `viteBuildContext`         | Allows to extend Vite default context.
`vite:extendConfig`      | `viteInlineConfig, env`    | Allows to extend Vite default config.
`vite:configResolved`    | `viteInlineConfig, env`    | Allows to read the resolved Vite config.
`vite:serverCreated`     | `viteServer, env`          | Called when the Vite server is created.
`vite:compiled`          | -                          | Called after Vite server is compiled.
`webpack:config`         | `webpackConfigs`           | Called before configuring the webpack compiler.
`webpack:configResolved` | `webpackConfigs`           | Allows to read the resolved webpack config.
`webpack:compile`        | `options`                  | Called right before compilation.
`webpack:compiled`       | `options`                  | Called after resources are loaded.
`webpack:change`         | `shortPath`                | Called on `change` on WebpackBar.
`webpack:error`          | -                          | Called on `done` if has errors on WebpackBar.
`webpack:done`           | -                          | Called on `allDone` on WebpackBar.
`webpack:progress`       | `statesArray`              | Called on `progress` on WebpackBar.

## Nitro App Hooks (runtime, server-side)

See [Nitro](https://nitro.build/guide/plugins#available-hooks) for all available hooks.

Hook                   | Arguments             | Description                          | Types
-----------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------
`dev:ssr-logs`         | `{ path, logs }`      | Server                               | Called at the end of a request cycle with an array of server-side logs.
`render:response`      | `response, { event }` | Called before sending the response.  | [response](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/71ef8bd3ff207fd51c2ca18d5a8c7140476780c7/packages/nuxt/src/core/runtime/nitro/renderer.ts#L24), [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38)
`render:html`          | `html, { event }`     | Called before constructing the HTML. | [html](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/71ef8bd3ff207fd51c2ca18d5a8c7140476780c7/packages/nuxt/src/core/runtime/nitro/renderer.ts#L15), [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38)
`render:island`        | `islandResponse, { event, islandContext }` | Called before constructing the island HTML. | [islandResponse](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/e50cabfed1984c341af0d0c056a325a8aec26980/packages/nuxt/src/core/runtime/nitro/renderer.ts#L28), [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38), [islandContext](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/e50cabfed1984c341af0d0c056a325a8aec26980/packages/nuxt/src/core/runtime/nitro/renderer.ts#L38)
`close`               | -                | Called when Nitro is closed. | -
`error`               | `error, { event? }`          | Called when an error occurs. | [error](https://github.com/nitrojs/nitro/blob/d20ffcbd16fc4003b774445e1a01e698c2bb078a/src/types/runtime/nitro.ts#L48), [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38)
`request`             | `event`        | Called when a request is received. | [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38)
`beforeResponse`      | `event, { body }`        | Called before sending the response. | [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38), unknown
`afterResponse`       | `event, { body }`        | Called after sending the response. | [event](https://github.com/unjs/h3/blob/f6ceb5581043dc4d8b6eab91e9be4531e0c30f8e/src/types.ts#L38), unknown
