---
title: 'nuxi dev'
description: The dev command starts a development server with hot module replacement at http://localhost:3000
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/cli/blob/main/src/commands/dev.ts
    size: xs
---

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi dev [OPTIONS] [ROOTDIR]
```

The `dev` command starts a development server with hot module replacement at [http://localhost:3000](https://localhost:3000)

## Arguments

Argument | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`ROOTDIR="."` | `"."` | (DEPRECATED) Use `--cwd` instead. Specifies the working directory, defaults to current directory (".")

## Options

Option | Default | Description
--- | --- | ---
`--cwd=<directory>` |  | Specify the working directory, falls back to ROOTDIR if unset (defaults to current directory (".") after ROOTDIR argument removal)
`--logLevel=<silent\|info\|verbose>` |  | Specify build-time log level
`--envName` |  | The environment to use when resolving configuration overrides (default is `production` when building, and `development` when running the dev server)
`-o, --open` |  | Open the URL in the browser
`-p, --port` |  | Port to listen on (use `PORT` environment variable to override)
`-h, --host` |  | Host to listen on. If no value or an empty string provided, will listen on all available interfaces (use `HOST` environment variable to override)
`--clipboard` |  | Copy the URL to the clipboard
`--https` |  | Enable HTTPS
`--https.cert` |  | Path to TLS certificate used with HTTPS in PEM format
`--https.key` |  | Path to TLS key used with HTTPS in PEM format
`--https.pfx` |  | Path to PKCS#12 (.p12/.pfx) keystore containing a TLS certificate and Key
`--https.passphrase` |  | Passphrase used for TLS key or keystore
`--https.validityDays` |  | Validity in days of the autogenerated TLS certificate (https: true)
`--https.domains` |  | Comma separated list of domains and IPs, the autogenerated certificate should be valid for (https: true)
`--publicURL` |  | Displayed public URL (used for QR code)
`--qr` |  | Display The QR code of public URL when available
`--public` |  | Listen to all network interfaces
`--tunnel` |  | Open a tunnel using https://github.com/unjs/untun
`--dotenv` |  | Path to `.env` file to load, relative to the root directory
`--no-clear` |  | Disable clear console on restart
`--no-fork` |  | Disable forked mode
`--sslCert` |  | (DEPRECATED) Use `--https.cert` instead.
`--sslKey` |  | (DEPRECATED) Use `--https.key` instead.


The port and host can also be set via NUXT_PORT, PORT, NUXT_HOST or HOST environment variables.

Additionally to the above options, `nuxi` can pass options through to `listhen`, e.g. `--no-qr` to turn off the dev server QR code. You can find the list of `listhen` options in the [unjs/listhen](https://github.com/unjs/listhen) docs.

This command sets `process.env.NODE_ENV` to `development`.

::note
If you are using a self-signed certificate in development, you will need to set `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0` in your environment.
::
